Welcome to the second
week of this course.
In this video, you're going to
learn about parts
of speech tagging.
Specifically, you'll see
the different applications
that it is used for.
You'll also learn how to compute
the accuracy of a
part-of-speech tagger.
First, I'll go over what
parts of speech tagging is.
Then I'll show you how to use
so-called Markov chains and
hidden Markov models
to create parts
of speech tags for
your text corpus.
Next, I will introduce
the Viterbi algorithm and
demonstrate how it's used
in hidden Markov models.
You'll get to try this on
your own with an example.
You're going to apply all of
these skills in this
week's coding assignments.
It's a big week, so
let's get started.
Part of speech refers
to the category of
words or the lexical
terms in a language.
Examples of these
lexical terms in
the English language
would be noun,
verb, adjective,
adverb, pronoun,
preposition although
there are many others.
Let's take a look
at this sentence.
Why not learn something?
Writing out the names of
these terms can quickly
become cumbersome
during text analysis.
You're going to use a
short representation
called tags to represent
these categories.
The process of assigning
these tags to the
words of a sentence or
your corpus is referred
to as parts of speech
tagging or POS,
tagging for shorts.
Because POS tags describe
the characteristic structure of
lexical terms in a
sentence or text,
you can use them to make
assumptions about semantics.
They're used for identifying
named entities too.
In a sentence such as
the Eiffel Tower is
located in Paris,
Eiffel Tower and Paris
are both named entities.
Tags are also used for
coreference resolution.
If you have the two sentences,
the Eiffel Tower is
located in Paris,
it is 324 meters high,
you can use part-of-speech
tagging to infer that
it refers in this context
to the Eiffel Tower.
Another application is
speech recognition,
where you use parts of
speech tags to check
if a sequence of words has
a high probability or not.
You now know the
different applications
of parts of speech tagging.
In the next video,
you're going to learn about
Markov chains and you'll see how
you can use them to
decode the parts
of speech of a certain sentence.